# 2026-01-26

We have thought about how we could design our workshops/tests with junior developers to test the DX between JS and TS.

We are thinking of designing a few different tests:
- one where we have a separate file with a "person" object (the participants are not allowed to look in this separate file). In another file the participants should find out what *keys* exist on the object, without logging the whole object. Does TypeScript help to autocomplete the keys?
- another where we import some variables from a separate file (with bad naming, maybe something like `numberOfPlanets` which would be assumed to be a *number* but in actuality it's a *string*). They will then have to use these variables in some kind of calculation and then run the code (we could maybe create unit tests for the expected result). The JS code would fail the tests and the TS code would give type errors hinting about what needs to be fixed. [Example test 1](2026-01-26.js)
- Some harder test. Maybe something with interfaces? Complete a function to pass the tests... We have a function in a separate file that returns an object with multiple keys and values, the object is flaky, ie. some fields are sometimes a number and sometimes a string, and maybe undefined etc etc. The return object from the function in the other file will be typed with all of these inconsistencies in the TS test. The participants are tasked with passing all the tests by filter and returning some data based on the return object from the function in the other file. [Example test 2](2026-01-26.js)



We should hand out a form before the tests have begun where we ask some questions about programming experience in general (how many years have they programmed?), their experience with TypeScript (if they have any, and if so, how much?) etc.

After the tests the participants should fill out a second form with some questions about the tests, how they experienced them, how difficult where they etc? Is TypeScript something you would like to continue trying/using/learning more about? Could you see any benefits with using TypeScript? Any drawbacks?

This is to be able to compare results between people who have and don't have previous experience with TS. Does that effect their experience of the tests and their view of using TS?

All participants should be anonymous. At the start of each workshop we will hand out anonymised usernames for each person that they will write as their "name" on the forms. This allows us to upload the filled out forms as PDFs in this repo and, if wanted, in the finished thesis.

AI autocomplete should be completely turned off during the tests.

---

Conduct some interviews with senior developers at Flowbic in Kalmar. Ask them about their experience with TypeScript, thoughts, pros- and cons, and how/why they decided to learn it. 

To get some perspective from seniors. To make it a little more nuanced.
